README.md, before:

Dashboard UI
=====================================

(Based on Play 2.2.1, D3 3.3.10)

### Development

#### Gradle Settings

(See https://github.com/Sage-Bionetworks/dashboard)

#### The Play Console

Development is largely done in the Play console.  Launching the Play console loads the sbt build script:

    $ cd /path/to/project/root
    $ play

Commonly used Play commands:

    [dashboard-ui] $ help play  // Shows the list of available commands.
    [dashboard-ui] $ reload     // Reloads the sbt script. Every time you change the build files, you need to run this.
    [dashboard-ui] $ update     // Updates the dependencies.
    [dashboard-ui] $ clean      // Cleans the build.
    [dashboard-ui] $ compile    // (Note this also compiles the JavaScript in this app.)
    [dashboard-ui] $ test       // Runs the Play unit tests and integration tests.
    [dashboard-ui] $ eclipse    // Generates Eclipse project files.
    [dashboard-ui] $ run        // Starts a local instance in test mode.
    [dashboard-ui] $ dist       // Creates a distribution packages.

To launch a local instance that reads the production S3 bucket for real metric data, run this command in the play console:

    [dashboard-ui] $ run -Daws.accessKeyId=<prod-access-key> -Daws.secretKey=<prod-secret-key> -Dprod=true

### Deployment

1. Generate a distribution package. Launch the Play console and run the "dist" command.
2. Launch a m1.small EC2 instance.
    1. Choose the latest dashboard AMI (e.g "dashboard-single-20140118")
    2. Tag it with a good name (e.g. "dashboard-single-20140127")
    3. Choose the security group "dashboard-single"
3. Once the instance is active, upload the distribution package to the instance.

        $ scp -i prod-key-pair.pem target/universal/dashboard.zip admin@ec2-52-192-252-222.compute-1.amazonaws.com:/home/admin

4. Go to the EC2 instance, unpack the package, and launch the dashboard app.

        $ dashboard-ui-1.0-20140127/bin/dashboard-ui -Daws.accessKeyId=<prod-access-key> -Daws.secretKey=<prod-secret>
        -DsynapseUsr=dashboard@sagebase.org -DsynapsePwd=<synapse-password> -Dprod=true -Dhttp.port=9001 2> /dev/null &

5. After maybe 3 hours, cross-validate with the current dashboard.
6. Once validated, swap the instance at the dashboard load balancer.

### AWS Notes

1. [Dashboard AMI creation](https://gist.github.com/eric-wu/8658696)
2. [Nginx reverse proxy setup](https://gist.github.com/eric-wu/8483112) behind a elastic load balancer and in front of a Play web app.
3. Log locations
    1. Access logs: /var/log/nginx/access.log
    2. Application logs: [/path/to/app]/logs/application.log
4. The AMIs, the security groups, with "single" in the names, are for running a single dashboard instance where the Redis cache,
the web app, the reverse proxy all co-exist on a single host. But dashboard can be easily configured to run on multiple hosts
in a distributed setup.

Commit message:

Update READE with testing and hot deployment details.

README.md, after:

Dashboard UI
=====================================

(Based on Play 2.2.1, D3 3.3.10)

### Development

#### Gradle Settings

(See https://github.com/Sage-Bionetworks/dashboard)

#### The Play Console

Development is largely done in the Play console.  Launching the Play console loads the sbt build script:

    $ cd /path/to/project/root
    $ play

Commonly used Play commands:

    [dashboard-ui] $ help play  // Shows the list of available commands.
    [dashboard-ui] $ reload     // Reloads the sbt script. Every time you change the build files, you need to run this.
    [dashboard-ui] $ update     // Updates the dependencies.
    [dashboard-ui] $ clean      // Cleans the build.
    [dashboard-ui] $ compile    // (Note this also compiles the JavaScript in this app.)
    [dashboard-ui] $ test       // Runs the Play unit tests and integration tests.
    [dashboard-ui] $ eclipse    // Generates Eclipse project files.
    [dashboard-ui] $ run        // Starts a local instance in test mode.
    [dashboard-ui] $ dist       // Creates a distribution packages.

To launch a local instance that reads the production S3 bucket for real metric data, run this command in the play console:

    [dashboard-ui] $ run -Daws.accessKeyId=<prod-access-key> -Daws.secretKey=<prod-secret-key> -Dprod=true

### Test

Note that this could be used as potential hook-up point to a CI platform (e.g. Jenkins).

1. Run Play tests for the Scala code: 

    $ play test

2. Run Mocha tests for JavaScript (must install node.js and mocha first):

    $ mocha

### Deployment

#### Cold Deployment

1. Generate a distribution package. Launch the Play console and run the "dist" command.
2. Launch a m1.small EC2 instance.
    1. Choose the latest dashboard AMI (e.g "dashboard-single-20140118")
    2. Tag it with a good name (e.g. "dashboard-single-20140127")
    3. Choose the security group "dashboard-single"
3. Once the instance is active, upload the distribution package to the instance.

        $ scp -i prod-key-pair.pem target/universal/dashboard.zip admin@ec2-52-192-252-222.compute-1.amazonaws.com:/home/admin

4. Go to the EC2 instance, unpack the package, and launch the dashboard app.

        $ dashboard-ui-1.0-20140127/bin/dashboard-ui -Daws.accessKeyId=<prod-access-key> -Daws.secretKey=<prod-secret>
        -DsynapseUsr=dashboard@sagebase.org -DsynapsePwd=<synapse-password> -Dprod=true -Dhttp.port=9001 2> /dev/null &

5. After maybe 3 hours, cross-validate with the current dashboard.
6. Once validated, swap the instance at the dashboard load balancer.

#### Hot Deployment

If the caching layer hasn't changed, can do a much quicker hot deployment.

1. Find the live dashboard instance.
2. Create a distribution package and upload the package to the instance. Unzip it.
3. Watch the logs.  Once there no updates to the cache, kill the dashboard process.
4. Remove the PID file in the dashboard directory.
5. Start a new dashboard process from the new package.
6. Note, if we keep multiple instances behind the load balancer and maintain a separate caching layer,
   this is essentially how we can achieve zero down-time by hot deploying one instance at a time.

### AWS Notes

1. [Dashboard AMI creation](https://gist.github.com/eric-wu/8658696)
2. [Nginx reverse proxy setup](https://gist.github.com/eric-wu/8483112) behind a elastic load balancer and in front of a Play web app.
3. Log locations
    1. Access logs: /var/log/nginx/access.log
    2. Application logs: [/path/to/app]/logs/application.log
4. The AMIs, the security groups, with "single" in the names, are for running a single dashboard instance where the Redis cache,
the web app, the reverse proxy all co-exist on a single host. But dashboard can be easily configured to run on multiple hosts
in a distributed setup.
